In common usage, data (US: /ˈdætə/; UK: /ˈdeɪtə/) is a collection of discrete or 
continuous values that convey information, describing the quantity, quality, fact, 
statistics, other basic units of meaning, or simply sequences of symbols that may be 
further interpreted formally. A datum is an individual value in a collection of data. 
Data is usually organized into structures such as tables that provide additional context 
and meaning, and which may themselves be used as data in larger structures. Data may be 
used as variables in a computational process.[1][2] Data may represent abstract ideas or
 concrete measurements.[3] Data is commonly used in scientific research, economics, and 
 in virtually every other form of human organizational activity. Examples of data sets 
 include price indices (such as consumer price index), unemployment rates, literacy 
 rates, and census data. In this context, data represents the raw facts and figures 
 from which useful information can be extracted.

Data is collected using techniques such as measurement, observation, query, or analysis, 
and is typically represented as numbers or characters which may be further processed. 
Field data is data that is collected in an uncontrolled in-situ environment. 
Experimental data is data that is generated in the course of a controlled scientific experiment. 
Data is analyzed using techniques such as calculation, reasoning, discussion, presentation, 
visualization, or other forms of post-analysis. Prior to analysis, raw data (or unprocessed data) 
is typically cleaned: Outliers are removed and obvious instrument or data entry errors are corrected.

Data can be seen as the smallest units of factual information that can be used as a 
basis for calculation, reasoning, or discussion. Data can range from abstract ideas to 
concrete measurements, including, but not limited to, statistics. Thematically connected 
data presented in some relevant context can be viewed as information. Contextually 
connected pieces of information can then be described as data insights or intelligence. 
The stock of insights and intelligence that accumulates over time resulting from the 
synthesis of data into information, can then be described as knowledge. Data has been
 described as "the new oil of the digital economy".[4][5] Data, as a general concept, 
refers to the fact that some existing information or knowledge is represented or coded 
in some form suitable for better usage or processing.

Advances in computing technologies have led to the advent of big data, which usually 
refers to very large quantities of data, usually at the petabyte scale. Using traditional
 data analysis methods and computing, working with such large (and growing) datasets is 
 difficult, even impossible. (Theoretically speaking, infinite data would yield infinite 
 information, which would render extracting insights or intelligence impossible.) 
 In response, the relatively new field of data science uses machine learning (and other 
 artificial intelligence (AI)) methods that allow for efficient applications of analytic
  methods to big data.

Etymology and terminology
Further information: Data (word)
The Latin word data is the plural of datum, "(thing) given", neuter past participle of 
dare, "to give".[6] The first English use of the word "data" is from the 1640s. 
The word "data" was first used to mean "transmissible and storable computer information" 
in 1946. The expression "data processing" was first used in 1954.[6]

When "data" is used more generally as a synonym for "information", it is treated as a 
mass noun in singular form. This usage is common in everyday language and in technical 
and scientific fields such as software development and computer science. One example of 
this usage is the term "big data". When used more specifically to refer to the processing
 and analysis of sets of data, the term retains its plural form. This usage is common in 
 natural sciences, life sciences, social sciences, software development and computer 
 science, and grew in popularity in the 20th and 21st centuries. Some style guides do not 
 recognize the different meanings of the term, and simply recommend the form that best 
 suits the target audience of the guide. For example, APA style as of the 7th edition 
 requires "data" to be treated as a plural form.[7]

Meaning

Adrien Auzout's "A TABLE of the Apertures of Object-Glasses" from a 1665 article in 
Philosophical Transactions
See also: DIKW pyramid
Data, information, knowledge, and wisdom are closely related concepts, but each has its 
role concerning the other, and each term has its meaning. According to a common view, 
data is collected and analyzed; data only becomes information suitable for making 
decisions once it has been analyzed in some fashion.[8] One can say that the extent to 
which a set of data is informative to someone depends on the extent to which it is 
unexpected by that person. The amount of information contained in a data stream may be 
characterized by its Shannon entropy.

Knowledge is the awareness of its environment that some entity possesses, whereas data 
merely communicate that knowledge. For example, the entry in a database specifying the 
height of Mount Everest is a datum that communicates a precisely-measured value. This 
measurement may be included in a book along with other data on Mount Everest to describe 
the mountain in a manner useful for those who wish to decide on the best method to climb 
it. An awareness of the characteristics represented by this data is knowledge.

Data is often assumed to be the least abstract concept, information the next least, and 
knowledge the most abstract.[9] In this view, data becomes information by interpretation; 
e.g., the height of Mount Everest is generally considered "data", a book on Mount Everest
 geological characteristics may be considered "information", and a climber's guidebook 
 containing practical information on the best way to reach Mount Everest's peak may be 
 considered "knowledge". "Information" bears a diversity of meanings that ranges from 
 everyday usage to technical use. This view, however, has also been argued to reverse 
 how data emerges from information, and information from knowledge.[10] Generally speaking,
  the concept of information is closely related to notions of constraint, communication, 
control, data, form, instruction, knowledge, meaning, mental stimulus, pattern, perception,
and representation. Beynon-Davies uses the concept of a sign to differentiate between data and information; data is a series of symbols, while information occurs when the symbols are used to refer to something.[11][12]

Before the development of computing devices and machines, people had to manually collect 
data and impose patterns on it. Since the development of computing devices and machines, 
these devices can also collect data. In the 2010s, computers are widely used in many 
fields to collect data and sort or process it, in disciplines ranging from marketing, 
analysis of social services usage by citizens to scientific research. These patterns in 
data are seen as information that can be used to enhance knowledge. These patterns may 
be interpreted as "truth" (though "truth" can be a subjective concept) and may be 
authorized as aesthetic and ethical criteria in some disciplines or cultures. Events 
that leave behind perceivable physical or virtual remains can be traced back through data. 
Marks are no longer considered data once the link between the mark and observation is 
broken.[13]

Mechanical computing devices are classified according to how they represent data. 
An analog computer represents a datum as a voltage, distance, position, or other physical 
quantity. A digital computer represents a piece of data as a sequence of symbols drawn 
from a fixed alphabet. The most common digital computers use a binary alphabet, that is, 
an alphabet of two characters typically denoted "0" and "1". More familiar representations, 
such as numbers or letters, are then constructed from the binary alphabet. Some special 
forms of data are distinguished. A computer program is a collection of data, which can 
be interpreted as instructions. Most computer languages make a distinction between 
programs and the other data on which programs operate, but in some languages, notably 
Lisp and similar languages, programs are essentially indistinguishable from other data. 
It is also useful to distinguish metadata, that is, a description of other data. A 
similar yet earlier term for metadata is "ancillary data." The prototypical example of 
metadata is the library catalog, which is a description of the contents of books.